feat: audit scanner docs. (#199)
kubewarden/docs: docs/writing-policies/metadata.md

---
sidebar_label: "Policy metadata"
title: "Policy metadata"
---

# Policy metadata

The Kubewarden metadata file, `metadata.yaml`, serves as a vital configuration
file that contains important information and settings related to the policies
used within Kubewarden. This documentation aims to provide an overview of the
purpose and usage of the metadata file.

The policy `metadata.yaml` file contains defaults for the policy, in addition
to metadata such as author and description, set by the policy author.  The file
is used by the `kwctl annonate` command to, as the name suggests, annotates the
`.wasm` file containing the policy. Therefore, all the relevant information required to run

> the policy will be available. See more how to annotate the policy in the
> [Distributing Policies](../distributing-policies.md) guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the policy will be available. More information about how to annotate the policy
can be found in the [Distributing Policies](../distributing-policies.md) guide.
```

  operations: ["CREATE"]
mutating: false
contextAwareResources: []
executionMode: kubewarden-wapc
backgroundAudit: true
annotations:
  # artifacthub specific:
  io.artifacthub.displayName: Policy Name
  io.artifacthub.resources: Pod
  io.artifacthub.keywords: pod, cool policy, kubewarden
  io.kubewarden.policy.ociUrl: ghcr.io/myorg/my-policy
  # kubewarden specific:
  io.kubewarden.policy.title: My policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.description: Short description
  io.kubewarden.policy.author: myself
  io.kubewarden.policy.url: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.source: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.license: Apache-2.0
  # The next two annotations are used in the policy report generated by the
  # Audit scanner. Severity indicates policy check result criticality and
  # Category indicates policy category. See more here at docs.kubewarden.io
  io.kubewarden.policy.severity: medium
  io.kubewarden.policy.category: Resource validation
```

**1. Enabling Background Audit Checks:**

The metadata file includes a flag, `backgroundAudit`,  that enables the
background audit checks for a specific policy. By default, this flag is set to

> `true`. There are some policies where, due some audit scanner limitations, this
> field should be set to `false` tough.  See more about the audit scanner
> limitations that policy author should have in mind when enabling the
> `backgroundAudit` in its dedicated [docs page](../explanations/audit-scanner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`true`.

There are some policies that, due to the way they work or to the type
of events they are interested about, should have this field set to `false`.
More information can be found inside of the
[audit scanner documentation](../explanations/audit-scanner),
respectively under the limitations section.
```

It would be nice to have the link point straight to the limitation section. I think this is doable... something like `../explanations/audit-scanner#limitations`?

Author: I do not know. I'll check in the docusaurus docs.

---
sidebar_label: "Policy metadata"
title: "Policy metadata"
---

# Policy metadata

The Kubewarden metadata file, `metadata.yaml`, serves as a vital configuration
file that contains important information and settings related to the policies

> used within Kubewarden. This documentation aims to provide an overview of the
> purpose and usage of the metadata file.

Reviewer 2: All just suggestions:

```suggestion
used within Kubewarden. This documentation provides an overview of the
purpose and usage of the metadata file.
```

is used by the `kwctl annonate` command to, as the name suggests, annotates the
policy OCI artifact.  Therefore, all the relevant information required to run
the policy will be available. See more how to annotate the policy in the
[Distributing Policies](../distributing-policies.md) guide

When policy users want to use a policy, they generate a YAML manifest using
`kwctl scaffold`. This command reads the policy metadata embedded in the
shipped Wasm module, performs sanity checks, and returns a YAML manifest that
the author can use as-is or adapt to their needs.

As a policy author. you can adapt the `metadata.yaml` from those provided in the
policy template examples.

See the following example of a `metadata.yaml`:

```yaml
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  apiVersions: ["v1"]
  resources: ["pods"]
  operations: ["CREATE"]
mutating: false
contextAwareResources: []
executionMode: kubewarden-wapc
# Consider the policy for the background audit scans. Default is true. Note the
# intrinsic limitations of the background audit feature on docs.kubewarden.io;
# If your policy hits any limitations, set to false for the audit feature to

> # skip this policy and not generate false positives.

Reviewer: I would explain the limitations below

  io.kubewarden.policy.description: Short description
  io.kubewarden.policy.author: myself
  io.kubewarden.policy.url: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.source: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.license: Apache-2.0
  # The next two annotations are used in the policy report generated by the
  # Audit scanner. Severity indicates policy check result criticality and
  # Category indicates policy category. See more here at docs.kubewarden.io
  io.kubewarden.policy.severity: medium
  io.kubewarden.policy.category: Resource validation
```

**1. Enabling Background Audit Checks:**

The metadata file includes a flag, `backgroundAudit`,  that enables the
background audit checks for a specific policy. By default, this flag is set to
`true`. The background audit checks feature allows continuous evaluation of
resources running in the Kubernetes cluster to ensure compliance with the
deployed policies. When policies are deployed or updated, potentially altering
the allowed configurations within the cluster, the background audit checks
assist operators in identifying any violations of security and compliance

> rules. See more at the [audit scanner explanation docs](../explanations/audit-scanner).

Reviewer: This feels like a repetition of the audit scanner feature. I would:

* reduce it. I would delete everything starting from "The background audit checks feature allows..."
* write what kind of policies should have this field set to `false`: the ones using context aware information and the ones relying on user/group data
* add a link to the docs about the limitations of background checks

---
sidebar_label: "Policy metadata"
title: "Policy metadata"
---

# Policy metadata

The Kubewarden metadata file, `metadata.yaml`, serves as a vital configuration
file that contains important information and settings related to the policies

> used within Kubewarden. This documentation aims to provide an overview of the

Reviewer 3: This page is great! I think we should have added it ages ago!

On the review of it, I would reduce the mentions to providing an overview and example, plus I would mention that the metadata.yaml gets used by `kwctl scaffold`. Something like

> The policy `metadata.yaml` file contains defaults for the policy, in addition to metadata such as author and description, set by the policy author.
>
> When policy users want to use a policy, they generate a YAML manifest using `kwctl scaffold`. `kwctl scaffold` reads the `metadata.yaml` of the policy, performs sanity checks, and returns a YAML manifest that the author can use as-is or adapt to their needs.
>
> As a policy author. you can adapt the metadata.yaml from those provided in the policy template examples. 

> See the following example of a `metadata.yaml`:
> (...)

# Consider the policy for the background audit scans. Default is true. Note the
# intrinsic limitations of the background audit feature on docs.kubewarden.io;
# If your policy hits any limitations, set to false for the audit feature to
# skip this policy and not generate false positives.
backgroundAudit: true
annotations:
  # artifacthub specific:
  io.artifacthub.displayName: Policy Name
  io.artifacthub.resources: Pod
  io.artifacthub.keywords: pod, cool policy, kubewarden
  io.kubewarden.policy.ociUrl: ghcr.io/myorg/my-policy
  # kubewarden specific:
  io.kubewarden.policy.title: My policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.description: Short description
  io.kubewarden.policy.author: myself
  io.kubewarden.policy.url: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.source: https://github.com/yourorg/my-policy
  io.kubewarden.policy.license: Apache-2.0
  # The next two annotations are used in the policy report generated by the
  # Audit scanner. Severity indicates policy check result criticality and
  # Category indicates policy category. See more here at docs.kubewarden.io
  io.kubewarden.policy.severity: medium
  io.kubewarden.policy.category: Resource validation
```

> **1. Enabling Background Audit Checks:**

Reviewer 3: Just a musing:

Also, as a policy author, I would prefer more of a field by field reference subsections. But maybe that could go into "Reference documentation" in the future. And thinking about it, I feel that it would be useful to separate the docs into the different personas (policy author, policy user, cluster admin). And for each of them, use the Divio system and provide a specific "how-to", "reference documentation", etc.

Author: I agree. I think that a field by field documentation is better suited to the reference docs. My goal here is to have some docs about the metadata.ym file. But I do not think this is the defined documentation about that.

The metadata file includes a flag, `backgroundAudit`,  that enables the
background audit checks for a specific policy. By default, this flag is set to

> "true." The background audit checks feature allows continuous evaluation of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"true". The background audit checks feature allows continuous evaluation of
```

resources running in the Kubernetes cluster to ensure compliance with the
deployed policies. When policies are deployed or updated, potentially altering
the allowed configurations within the cluster, the background audit checks
assist operators in identifying any violations of security and compliance

> rules. See more at the audit scanner documentation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rules. See more at the [audit scanner explanation docs](../explanations/audit-scanner).
```

the `contextAwareResources` as:

```yaml
[...]
contextAwareResources:
  - apiVersion: v1 kind: Namespace
[...]
```

**3. Specifying Policy Type: Mutating or Non-Mutating:**

The metadata file contains a flag, `mutating`,  that allows users to designate
a policy as either a mutating policy or a non-mutating policy. A mutating
policy modifies the incoming requests or the resources being managed, while a
non-mutating policy only observes and enforces restrictions without making any
changes. This distinction is crucial in determining how policies interact with
the Kubernetes resources and their impact on the cluster.

**4. Defining Resource Type Targets:**

The metadata file provides users with the ability to define the rules within
the `rules` field, which determine the resource types to which the policy
applies. This feature empowers users to exercise precise control over policy
enforcement, guaranteeing that policies are exclusively applied to the intended
resource types. With this fine-grained control, users can ensure that policies
are targeted accurately, aligning with their specific requirements and avoiding
any unintended application to unrelated resource types.

---

> The `metadata.yml` file is used by the `kwctl annonate` command to, as the name

Reviewer 3: This paragraph should be part of the beginning in my opinion, after the mention to `kwctl scaffold`.
